
## 2025 March 6

### Participants:
- Richard Littauer
- Andrew Nesbitt
- Tobias Augspurger
- Chris Harris
- Michael Scheiwiller

Secretary: Richard. (Unless someone else wants to do this?)

### Agenda and Notes

- Introduction to new members and attendees
- Report back from action items from last meeting
    - Richard:
        - [x] Save to repository, make next agenda
        - [ ] Document about media outlets
        - [ ] Write Gunner
        - [~] Paper status
    - Andrew
        - NumFOCUS Energy, Climate, and Environment Innovation Sprint
        
        - The idea is to leverage existing curated datasets (e.g., Tobiâ€™s list of over 2,000 human-curated climate-related tools), along with data from sources like OpenAlex, GitHub, MOSS, and Ecosyste.ms.
        - https://funds.ecosyste.ms/ is progressing, can potentially setup an OST fund
        - https://github.com/open-energy-transition/open-esd-analysis
    - Tobi
        - We are a DPG now \o/
            - Still need to suss out what the benefits are.
        - GitHub was asked if they will pay for the flight to CA; probably not.
            - Chris Harris could go and seems keen! 
            - [ ] Chris, let us know
            - [ ] Tobi, follow back up with Paul about flights?
        - Docs with skillset per person
        - Issue about the 'manifesto' website
        - Help on governance editing
    - Michael
        - [x] Add ananlytics to Climate Triage
- Finance report
    - GNOME: Still has $10k.
    - Still have $9500 in the climate fund.
- Media report:
    - Anything we should know about that needs to be covered in this meeting?
        - We have Bluesky and Mastodon and OST
            - https://bsky.app/profile/opensustaintech.bsky.social
            - https://mastodon.social/@opensustaintech
        - Doesn't make sense to make an org LinkedIn
            - [ ] Richard write up about this
        - [ ] RIchard: Talk to Stuart about posts
- Governance questions
    - https://github.com/protontypes/open-sustainable-technology/issues/932
    - https://communityrule.info/create/
    - Goal for this meeting:
        - Where we are
            - Values: Goals
                - https://report.opensustain.tech/chapters/principles.html
                - Openness
                - Transparency and Traceability
                - Trust
                - Collaborative
                - Localized
                - Decentralized
                - Accountable
            - Decisions
                - Lazy consensus
                - Defaults to Tobi making decisions
            - Processes 
                - Asyncronous conversation
                - Pull requests end up with Tobi merging
                - 
            - Structure
        - Where we want tobe
            - Values
            - Decisions
            - Processes 
            - Structure
    - Governance Doc
        - Set up a Group for reviewing climate PRs (and only that!)
        - Set up roles for the meetings:
            - Secretary
                - Note-taking
            - Facilitator
                - Leads the meetings
            - These will defualt to Richard if he is there, otherwise don't have a meeting without choosing someon
            - Finance: If you ahve been to the last three meetings, you get a vote for how anything over $500 is spent
                - Clear majority 75%+ of quorum
            - In three months - June 6- check back in with what we need
            - Code of Conduct committee
                - Who is on the committee
            - Richard will set up a govenrance doc, and we can make PRS, which will need 100% sign-off fomr the people at the last three meetings
                - Tag the explicit people that is relevant
            - Sign off is an explicit text message that shows agreement.
    